

There were four children whose names were Peter , Susan , Edmund and Lucy.
this story is about something that happened to them.
they were sent away from London during the war because of the airraids.
They were sent to the house of an old Professor.
The Professor lived in the heart of the country.
he lived ten miles from the nearest railwaystation and he lived two miles from the nearest postoffice.
He had no wife and he lived in a very large house with a housekeeper and three servants.
Their names were Ivy, Margaret and Betty, but they do not come into the story much.
The housekeeper was called Mrs Macready.
The professor was a very old man with shaggy white hair which grew over most of his face and on his head.
they liked him almost immediately.

but on the first evening when he came out to meet them at the front door he was so oddlooking that Lucy was a little afraid of him. 
and Edmund wanted to laugh and had to keep pretending he was blowing his nose to hide it.
they had said good night to the Professor and had gone upstairs on the first night.
the boys came into the room of the girls and they talked it over. 
peter said they had fallen on their feet and it was going to be perfectlty splendid.
That old chap will let us do anything we like.
Susan said she thought he was an old dear.
Edmund said to come off it.
he was tired and he was pretending not to be tired.
that always made him bad tempered. 
Do not go on talking like that. 
Like what?
susan said it was time they were in bed.
Edmund said she was trying to talk like mother.
who are you to say when I have to go to bed?
Go to bed yourself.
Lucy said they had all better gone to bed.
There is going to be a row if we're heard talking here.
peter said there would not be a row.
he told them this was the house where no one was going to mind what they did. 
they will not hear us anyway. 
The walk is ten minutes from here down to that diningroom, and there is any amount of stairs and passages in between. 

Lucy suddenly asked about the noise.
The house was far larger than she had been to before.
The thought of the long passages and rows of doors leading into empty rooms was beginning to make her feel a little creepy.
Edmund said that it was a bird.
Peter said that it is an owl.
This will be a wonderful place for birds.
I will go to bed.
We will explore tomorrow.
You might find anything in a place like this.
Did you see those mountains and the woods?
There might be eagles.
There might be stags.
There will be hawks.
Lucy said badgers.
Edmund said foxes.
Susan said rabbits.
It was raining in the morning.
The rain was so thick that you could not see the mountains or the woods or the stream in the garden.
Edmund said that it would be raining.
They had just finished their breakfast with the Professor and were upstairs in the room that he had set apart for them.
It was a long, low room with four windows.
Susan said that Edmund should stop grumbling.
It will clear up in an hour.
We are pretty well off.
There is a wireless and many books.
Peter said he will explore the house.
Everyone agreed.
This is how the adventure began.
It was a house that never came to an end.
It was full of unexpected places.
The first few doors they tried led into spare bedrooms.
Everyone expected that.
They soon came to a very long room with pictures and there they found a suit of armour.
The next room was very green and the room had a harp in the corner.
There was a hall with stairs and a door that led to a balcony.
There was a whole series of rooms that led into eachother and the rooms were lined with books.
Most books were very old and bigger than a bible.
The next room only had a big wardrobe.
The wardrobe had glass in the door.
The room had a dead blue bottle on the still.
Peter said that there was nothing and they trooped out.
Lucy stayed in the room.
Lucy thought that it was worthwhile trying to open de door.
She was almost sure that the door was locked.
The door opened easily and two mothballs fell out.
She saw several coats.
They were long fur coats.
Lucy loved the smell and feel of fur.
Lucy immediately went in the wardrobe and she rubbed her face against them.
Lucy left the door open.
She knew that it is very foolish to be locked in a wardrobe.
She soon went further and she found that there was a second row of coats.
